# Summarize
### There are many different kinds of loops, but they all essentially do the same thing: they repeat an action some number of times. (Note that it's possible that number could be zero!The various loop mechanisms offer different ways to determine the start and end points of the loop. There are various situations that are more easily served by one type of loop over the others Loops offer a quick and easy way to do something repeatedly. This chapter of the JavaScript Guide introduces the different iteration statements available to JavaScript.You can think of a loop as a computerized version of the game where you tell someone to take X steps in one direction, then Y steps in another. For example, the idea "Go five steps to the east" could be expressed this way as a loop.

# Example

### In the example below, the function contains a for statement that counts the number of selected options in a scrolling list (a <select> element that allows multiple selections). The for statement declares the variable i and initializes it to 0. It checks that i is less than the number of options in the <select> element, performs the succeeding if statement, and increments i by after each pass through the loop.When a for loop executes, the following occursThe initializing expression initialExpression, if any, is executed. This expression usually initializes one or more loop counters, but the syntax allows an expression of any degree of complexity. This expression can also declare variables.The conditionExpression expression is evaluated. If the value of conditionExpression is true, the loop statements execute. If the value of condition is false, the for loop terminates. (If the condition expression is omitted entirely, the condition is assumed to be true.)The statement executes. To execute multiple statements, use a block statement ({ ... }) to group those statements.If present, the update expression incrementExpression is executed.Control returns to Step 2.


